under international human rights law
this should not be happening the use of
white phosphorus Munitions while not
banned out right is illegal when used in
civilian areas like this town ofam along
the disputed border with Israel white
phosphorus Burns through anything it
comes into contact with clothes skin
muscle bone it destroys livestock and
makes Land unfit for sewing crops
potentially for at least a generation
for Israel it's not unusual to use such
weapons what we've seen in Lebanon and
Gazza um is that Israel in the case of
GZA we've documented the use of white
phosphorus in uh populated areas which
is a violation of IHL Human Rights Watch
also uh documented the use of white
phosphorus in Lebanon and other right
groups including Amnesty International
have noted that Israel has uh apparently
used white phosphorus indiscriminately
on civilian areas which would amount to
a violation of international
humanitarian law Israel has a stock
response when it comes to white
phosphorus Munitions saying it adheres
to international
law the mayor of the Agricultural town
of aarun is currently living in the town
of De having been forced from his home
by fighting he's an agricultural expert
and tells us they won't know exactly how
much damage has been done until they
survey it when they return but he knows
the damage is extensive and long
term phosphorus has a significant impact
on the soil given that it can react in a
slow Manner and seep into groundwater in
addition it may lead to an imbalance in
the environmental ecological diversity
and in groundwater rivers and Rain the
direct damage is caused by rapid burning
that can affect humans plants animals
Etc this is what the aftermath of a
white phosphorus attack looks like all
the vegetation across a fairly wide area
here all blackened and burnt but this is
just a tiny fraction uh of the damage
the closer you get to the border the
more scenes like this that you'll see
$20 million worth of damage according to
the Lebanese agricultural Ministry
across that disputed uh border but for
the farmers there is another problem
these white phosphorus attacks um cause
an enormous amount of environmental
damage meaning uh that these fields and
Fields like this may not be plantable
for at least a generation Imran Khan Al
jazer Galia Southern Lebanon
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al
jazer